---
layout: post
title: Stephen Bothwell
---

Lunch at 12:30pm, talk at 1pm, in 148 Fitzpatrick

Title: Seeking Parallels, Percieiving Structures: On the Detection of Rhetorical Parallelism

Abstract: How do we describe the degree to which a text is “stylized” or rhetorically
sophisticated? One potential measure of stylization is the degree to which a text exhibits
rhetorical parallelism--that is, the notion of juxtaposing certain linguistic features in an
organized manner to produce a greater effect. In this talk, I will define the task of parallelism
detection and describe the dataset, derived from the sermons of St. Augustine of Hippo, which
we have collected for this task. Then, I will outline our proposed solutions for said task. To start
with, I will detail some heuristic and probabilistic baselines involving edit distance. Then, I will
consider a neural approach incorporating Siamese networks, elaborating upon augmentations we
wish to make in order to better equip the networks for our task of interest. Finally, I will also
briefly mention other areas of NLP to which I believe the ability to capture parallelism would be
valuable.

Bio: Stephen Bothwell is a third-year Ph.D. student in the NLP Group at the University of
Notre Dame and is advised by Dr. David Chiang. Broadly speaking, his research centers on
computational linguistics and stylistics. In particular, he frequently contemplates methods based
on edit distance, enjoys investigating methods for interpretability in neural networks, and is
passionate about the incorporation of linguistic information in NLP. Currently, his work includes
a stylistic analysis of the texts of St. Augustine and a study of diachronic historical linguistics in
the Italic region.
