---
layout: post
title:  Kezia Oketch
---

Lunch at 12:30pm, talk at 1pm, in 148 Fitzpatrick

Title: When Automated Assessment Meets Automated Content Generation: Examining Text Quality in the Era of GPTs

Abstract: The use of machine learning (ML) models to assess and score textual data has become increasingly pervasive in
an array of contexts including natural language processing, information retrieval, search and recommendation,
and credibility assessment of online content. A significant disruption at the intersection of ML and text are
text-generating large-language models such as generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs). We empirically
assess the differences in how ML-based scoring models trained on human content assess the quality of content
generated by humans versus GPTs. To do so, we propose an analysis framework that encompasses essay scoring
ML-models, human and ML-generated essays, and a statistical model that parsimoniously considers the impact
of type of respondent, prompt genre, and the ML model used for assessment model. A rich testbed is utilized
that encompasses 18,460 human-generated and GPT-based essays. Results of our benchmark analysis reveal
that transformer pretrained language models (PLMs) more accurately score human essay quality as compared
to CNN/RNN and feature-based ML methods. Interestingly, we find that the transformer PLMs tend to score
GPT-generated text 10-15% higher on average, relative to human-authored documents. Conversely, traditional
deep learning and feature-based ML models score human text considerably higher. Further analysis reveals that
even though the transformer PLMs are exclusively fine-tuned on human text, they more prominently attend
to certain tokens appearing only in GPT-generated text, possibly due to familiarity/overlap in pre-training.
Our framework and results have implications for text classification settings where automated scoring of text
is likely to be disrupted by generative AI.

Bio: Kezia Oketch is a second year PhD student in the Department of IT, Analytics & Operations at the University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, 
and is a member of Human Analytics Lab(HAL). Her research is focused on predicting behavior, personalization, and used modeling space.
