---
layout: post
title:  Meng Chen
---

Lunch at 12:30pm, talk at 1pm, in 148 Fitzpatrick

Title: Structured Generation and Exploration of Design Space with Large Language Models for Human-AI Co-Creation

Abstract: Thanks to their generative capabilities, large language models (LLMs) have become an invaluable tool for creative processes. These models have the capacity to produce hundreds and thousands of visual and textual outputs, offering abundant inspiration for creative endeavors. But are we harnessing their full potential? We argue that current interaction paradigms fall short, guiding users towards rapid convergence on a limited set of ideas, rather than empowering them to explore the vast latent design space in generative models. To address this limitation, we propose a framework that facilitates the structured generation of design space in which users can seamlessly explore, evaluate, and synthesize a multitude of responses. We demonstrate the feasibility and usefulness of this framework through the design and development of an interactive system, Luminate, and a user study with 8 professional writers. Our work advances how we interact with LLMs for creative tasks, introducing a way to harness the creative potential of LLMs.

Bio: Meng Chen is a senior undergraduate studying Computer Science and Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame where he was advised by Dr. Toby Jia-jun Li. Meng is interested in human-computer interaction and cognitive science. Recently, he is working on developing interfaces that reduce the cost of disambiguation and communication between humans and AI.
